---
layout: post
title: "Deliberation and Caution"
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

When a rocket launches it needs masses of fuel. Thereafter less and less as it escapes gravity. Despite this, the diminishing output retains equal importance; If the last speck of fuel is discarded, instead of stable orbit the craft could slowly drift down into a hell of increasing gravity, and pointing in the wrong direction too.

_But if the little fox, after nearly completing the crossing,
Gets his tail in the water,
There is nothing that would further._

*-Hexagram 64 [I CHING]*

Therefor if the craft is ready for launch, the person controlling it needs to be wide awake.

h2. Getting to the point of being wide awake

_Now it is the time of struggle. The transition must be completed. We must make ourselves strong in resolution; this brings good fortune. *All misgivings that might arise in such grave times of struggle must be silenced.* It is a question of a fierce battle to break and to discipline the Devil’s Country, the forces of decadence.* But the struggle also has its reward. Now is the time to lay the foundations of power and mastery for the future._
 
*forces of decadence = bad habits.

Once in orbit, the craft and person enjoy success, but will find themselves unable to conceive of further possibilities. That is the time to have a good attitude towards people of greater experience.

PRACTICAL STEPS

1) Sleep well

No internet after 10

2) Eat well

Regular, smaller portions; No salt; No sugar, sugary things; Experience some hunger.

3) Drink well

Water, wine.

4) Talk

Engage; Address issues.